README.md, before:

# timekill

An app for your phone that suggests (gets you addicted to) healthy ways for you to (not) waste your time.

Most of us are guilty of using our phones too much, which wouldn't be a problem if most of the use was actually healthy. Instead we spend far more time than we should on social media, YouTube, Netflix, and mobile games. What if we could wire our brains to compulsively open an app that suggested [healthy alternatives](#healthy-timekill) instead?

What I suggest is a infinite-scrolling feed that serves cards with *healthy* and *productive* content. The infinite-scrolling feed is a powerful thing that feeds on our brains' desire for novelty, can we tame it?


## Healthy timekill

Here's a list of healthy ways to kill time:

 - Work on a task on your TODO list
 - Use learning apps like Brilliant/Khan Academy/Coursera/EdX/Duolingo
 - Work out at home or go to the gym
 - Get only the most useful/recommended content across feeds (see my wiki on [The Importance of Open Recommender Systems](https://erik.bjareholt.com/wiki/importance-of-open-recommendation-systems/))
   - Can this actually decrease FOMO meaningfully?
 - Staying in touch with friends we haven't talked to in a while (as some personal relationship management systems aim to help the user do)

The important thing for things to make a list like this is that it's something the user could *sometimes* actually be willing to do. Different times/moods/places call for different timekill.


## Ideas

 - Integrate with ActivityWatch
   - Track how many productive hours timekill helped initiate.
   - Show a card with the number of productive hours today
     - You could do the same for unproductive hours, but I'm not sure that would be very helpful as it basically just shames the user (which could lead to counterproductive results)
 - Add rewards for productive time (this might be a bad idea, would make the motivation extrinsic)

## Timeline

### Pre-MVP

 - Set up a ProductHunt ship page (to build a mailing list of people who are interested)
   - Link from personal, ActivityWatch, and Thankful accounts on social media
   - Share in local college/programming/startup communities (Code@LTH, D-sektionen community, Lund Startups, Malmö Startups)


### MVP

How do we build an MVP that users like as quickly as possible?

 - Focus on getting the user to think about good ways to kill time, then let them create cards to show in the feed themselves.

Ideas:

 - Integrate with ActivityWatch for synergistic effects on development (might be past the MVP stage, but there should definitely be a plan for it)


## Name

Current name was just how the one I happened to impulsively use when thinking about it. It might need improvement.

Commit message:

added idea about distraction-distracting notifications

README.md, after:

# timekill

An app for your phone that suggests (gets you addicted to) healthy ways for you to (not) waste your time.

Most of us are guilty of using our phones too much, which wouldn't be a problem if most of the use was actually healthy. Instead we spend far more time than we should on social media, YouTube, Netflix, and mobile games. What if we could wire our brains to compulsively open an app that suggested [healthy alternatives](#healthy-timekill) instead?

What I suggest is a infinite-scrolling feed that serves cards with *healthy* and *productive* content. The infinite-scrolling feed is a powerful thing that feeds on our brains' desire for novelty, can we tame it?


## Healthy timekill

Here's a list of healthy ways to kill time:

 - Work on a task on your TODO list
 - Use learning apps like Brilliant/Khan Academy/Coursera/EdX/Duolingo
 - Work out at home or go to the gym
 - Get only the most useful/recommended content across feeds (see my wiki on [The Importance of Open Recommender Systems](https://erik.bjareholt.com/wiki/importance-of-open-recommendation-systems/))
   - Can this actually decrease FOMO meaningfully?
 - Staying in touch with friends we haven't talked to in a while (as some personal relationship management systems aim to help the user do)

The important thing for things to make a list like this is that it's something the user could *sometimes* actually be willing to do. Different times/moods/places call for different timekill.


## Ideas

 - Integrate with ActivityWatch
   - Track how many productive hours timekill helped initiate.
   - Show a card with the number of productive hours today
     - You could do the same for unproductive hours, but I'm not sure that would be very helpful as it basically just shames the user (which could lead to counterproductive results)
 - Add rewards for productive time (this might be a bad idea, would make the motivation extrinsic)
 - Distraction-distracting notifications: Try to distract the user from undesirable activities (social media, games, etc.) by sending notifications that suggest healthier alternatives

## Timeline

### Pre-MVP

 - Set up a ProductHunt ship page (to build a mailing list of people who are interested)
   - Link from personal, ActivityWatch, and Thankful accounts on social media
   - Share in local college/programming/startup communities (Code@LTH, D-sektionen community, Lund Startups, Malmö Startups)


### MVP

How do we build an MVP that users like as quickly as possible?

 - Focus on getting the user to think about good ways to kill time, then let them create cards to show in the feed themselves.

Ideas:

 - Integrate with ActivityWatch for synergistic effects on development (might be past the MVP stage, but there should definitely be a plan for it)


## Name

Current name was just how the one I happened to impulsively use when thinking about it. It might need improvement.
